Local media in Miami reported that rock star Jon Bon Jovi was forced to cancel a concert Saturday minutes before taking the stage after testing positive for COVID-19. A Miami television station said a spokesman for the fully vaccinated singer told the audience Saturday evening that Bon Jovi had tested positive after he and members of his band took rapid response tests. The spokesman said the rock star "feels great" but would not be performing and was headed to bed. The band is reported to have stayed and played for the crowd without the lead singer. There was no word about whether the concert would be rescheduled. Bon Jovi participated in public service campaigns last year encouraging people to mask up and practice social distancing. Earlier Monday, U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said the more than 5 million COVID-19 deaths was "a global shame" and a reminder that much of the world is being "failed" by vaccine inequities. The Johns Hopkins Coronavirus Resource Center reported early Monday that the global death toll from the COVID-19 pandemic reached its total just four months after the 4 million death milestone. In a statement, Guterres said these deaths are "not just numbers on a page. They are mothers and fathers. Brothers and sisters. Daughters and sons. Family, friends and colleagues. Lives cut short by a merciless virus that respects no borders." COVID-19 is caused by the coronavirus. Guterres said the devastating milestone is a reminder that while wealthy countries are rolling out third "booster" doses of the COVID-19 vaccine, only about 5% of people in Africa are fully vaccinated. The U.N chief urged world leaders to fully support the Global Vaccination Strategy he launched last month with the World Health Organization, and through funding and vaccine donations, help meet the goal of inoculating 40% of people in all countries by the end of 2021 and 70% by mid-2022. "The best way to honor those 5 million people lost ... is to make vaccine equity a reality by accelerating our efforts and ensuring maximum vigilance to defeat this virus," Guterres said. Meanwhile, Monday marks the easing of travel restrictions in Australia for its citizens and permanent residents who will no longer be subjected to a two-week quarantine when reentering the country. Australians will also be able to leave the country without getting special permission. Thailand began allowing fully vaccinated tourists into the country Monday. Thailand's economy has been pummeled by the tourist restrictions prompted by the pandemic. White House press secretary Jen Psaki said that although she is fully vaccinated, she has contracted COVID-19, adding that she is exhibiting only mild symptoms and is in quarantine. Members of her household have also tested positive, she said in a Twitter post Sunday. Sharing full statement and grateful I am vaccinated and for the amazing Biden team pic.twitter.com/QDokXo47dK Psaki did not travel to Europe with U.S. President Joe Biden, who attended the recent G-20 summit of world leaders in Rome and then flew to Glasgow, Scotland, for a conference on climate change. British health care workers began their plan Monday to visit more than 800 schools to inoculate students ages 12 to 15 with COVID-19 vaccines. Vaccines minister Maggie Throup said, "Thanks to the dedication of NHS (National Health Service) vaccine teams, we are making it as simple as possible for parents or guardians to book COVID-19 vaccines for their children." The Johns Hopkins Coronavirus Resource Center said Monday that nearly 7 billion vaccines have been administered worldwide.