The U.S. Supreme Court ruled Friday that abortion providers in the state of Texas can sue the state over its ban on most procedures. The court ruling came more than a month after hearing arguments over the law, one of the most restrictive in the U.S. It bans abortions after cardiac activity is noticed in embryos. Embryo activity is usually detected at about six weeks of pregnancy, when many women are unaware of their condition. The Republican-backed law, enacted on September 1, does not allow exceptions for incest or rape. Friday’s ruling likely paved the way for a federal judge to formally block the law, which the Supreme Court’s conservative majority declined to do on September 1 and in a separate challenge from President Joe Biden’s administration. The same federal judge who previously blocked the law is likely to be asked to block it
again. His decision will be evaluated by the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, which previously voted twice to allow the abortion ban to be enforced. The case could be heard again in the nation’s highest court, but so far there have not been five votes on the nine-member bench to suspend the law while legal disputes are settled. The Supreme Court’s ruling came one day after a Texas state judge ruled the law’s enforcement is unconstitutional while leaving the law in place. The law awards up to $10,000 to citizens who file successful lawsuits against those in violation. The Biden administration has called the law a “bounty.” Biden’s Justice Department said in a statement shortly after the ruling that it brought the suit “because the law was specifically designed to deprive Americans of their constitutional rights while evading judicial review. The department will continue our efforts in the lower courts to protect the rights of women and uphold the Constitution.” “A dark cloud hangs over the U.S. Constitution and the state of Texas today as the Supreme Court once again allowed extremist lawmakers to continue imposing their ideologies onto Texans’ private health care decisions,” American Civil Liberties of Texas attorney Adriana Piñon said in a statement from the ACLU. “We are particularly devastated by the implications of this ruling for Black Texans, who account for a shocking 31% of maternal deaths, and the broader fight for reproductive justice in our Black and Brown communities,” Piñon said. The head of the Whole Woman’s Health and Whole Woman’s Health Alliance, Amy Hagstrom Miller, said in the ACLU statement that “Texans deserve better than this. This ban will have lasting effects on Texan communities for decades to come. We’ve had to turn hundreds of patients away since this ban took effect, and there is no end in sight.” The court voted 8-1 in favor of allowing the lawsuit to proceed, with only conservative Justice Clarence Thomas voting the other way, saying he would have dismissed the lawsuit altogether. The Supreme Court is also considering a separate abortion rights case from Mississippi, which could result in the overturning of the landmark 1973 Roe v. Wade ruling that legalized abortions in the U.S. Some information for this report came from The Associated Press and Reuters.