At least 20 asylum seekers have tested positive for COVID-19 while being detained at a hotel in Australia. About 46 male asylum seekers have been detained at the Park hotel in Melbourne. Almost half have tested positive for COVID-19.

Some are reportedly immuno-compromised, including one detainee who has burns to more than half of his body after he set himself on fire at an offshore processing facility. 

The detainees were flown in from Australian offshore migrant camps in Papua New Guinea and Nauru during the past two years, mostly for medical treatment.

The Australian Border Force, which operates the hotel detention facility, says those who are unwell have been "closely monitored" and given proper medical care. A media release states that "multiple nursing staff [are] on-site and a general practitioner has attended the site and is available via telehealth at all times. It adds that all detainees in Australian immigration detention facilities have been offered COVID-19 vaccinations. 

However, refugee advocates tell a different story. They insist the hotel has become an “incubator” for the virus, and that nursing staff work only during the day. 

Ian Rintoul, a spokesperson for the Refugee Action Coalition, a community campaign organization, describes conditions inside the hotel as a “national scandal.” 

“There is one who has been hospitalized quite seriously. People have serious symptoms, chest pain. Some people are quite unwell. Others, you know, [have] mild symptoms, but the idea that they are being monitored regularly is just nonsense. They have got no access to fresh air, no access to exercise. It is not a proper facility to be quarantining or isolating people,” he said. Almost every asylum seeker in the Melbourne hotel has been detained by Australia for more than eight years. A 2013 policy barred any migrant trying to reach Australia by sea from resettlement.

Papua New Guinea was one of two Pacific countries paid by Canberra, along with the small Pacific republic of Nauru, to detain asylum-seekers and refugees. The agreement with Papua New Guinea, or PNG, is scheduled to finish at the end of the year. Migrants there will either be transferred to Nauru or be allowed to resettle in PNG.

Australia grants resettlement visas to about 13,700 refugees each year under various humanitarian schemes.

Australia has detected 160,000 coronavirus cases since the pandemic began. More than 1,600 people have died. 

Seventy-four percent of the eligible population is fully vaccinated, and long lockdowns in Sydney, Canberra and Melbourne were recently lifted. 